
Tutorial

Welcome new hunter.  To hunt, do !hunt and the bot rolls 3d6.  Higher numbers are bigger animals, and very low numbers are bad - you could get injured. 
You cannot guard children while hunting.
Before you set out, you might consider waiting for a crafter to make you a spearhead which gives you a bonus to your roll.
You can also `!gather`, but at a penalty. If your tribe has someone who knows how to craft, you can try to learn that skill with `!train`

Welcome new gatherer.  To gather, do `!gather`, and the bot rolls 3d6.  Higher numbers generally produce more food.  
You can guard 2 children without penalty; watching 3 or 4 gives an increasing penalty; 5 is too many to gather with.
Before you set out, you might consider waiting for a crafter to make you a spearhead which gives you an additional gather attempt.
You can also `!hunt`, but at a penalty. If your tribe has someone who knows how to craft, you can try to learn that skill with `!train`

Welcome new crafter.  To craft, do `!craft basket` or `!craft spearpoint`, and the game will roll 1d6; you only fail on a 1.
You can guard up to two children while crafting.
You can also `!gather`  or `!hunt`, but at a penalty.
By default, you will train others in crafting if they take a season to learn.  To toggle this setting, use `!secrets`.



In our tribe we share food. In return the gatherers will take care of your children, since hunters are terrible at childcare. As a simple tribesman you may not know where babies come from but we’ll explain that in the next round.
In a less close knit tribe where the chief was less trusted food swaps would probably happen in the next round (the Food round). 
The food round is designed for negotiations: give me a basket and I will give you some grain. Promise to feed the baby if you want to reproduce with me.
So, to mate, the game generates an order (leaving out any pregnant females). 
In turn each player can !invite someone of the opposite sex to attempt to make a baby. The response is !consent. 
If you don't want to mate, !pass will skip your turn.
Nursing moms are slightly less likely to catch a baby. Also, nursing moms who get pregnant eat more. 
To see the ages of current children do !children